Added Service Catalog tutorial (#988)
kubeapps/kubeapps: docs/user/service-catalog.md

# Kubernetes Service Catalog Kubeapps Integration

## Kubernetes Service Catalog

[Service Catalog](https://svc-cat.io/) is an extension API that enables applications running in
Kubernetes clusters to easily use external managed software offerings, such
as a datastore service offered by a cloud provider. These services are
provided by a Service Broker, which is an endpoint talking to these providers.
Once the cluster administrator deploys a ClusterServiceBroker, several
ClusterServiceClasses and ClusterServicePlans will be available in the cluster
for users to provision those services. To provision a service, users will create
a ServiceInstance object and to connect it to their application they will create
a ServiceBinding object.

![Service Catalog Diagram](../img/service-catalog-diagram.png)

## Service Catalog and Kubeapps

> Kubeapps has native integration with the Service Catalog and allow Kubeapps users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubeapps has native integration with the Service Catalog and allows Kubeapps users
```

to provision external cloud services directly from the Kubeapps interface.

In this tutorial we will explain how to deploy the Service Catalog into your cluster,
we will configure two Service Brokers (GCP and Azure) and we will provision some

> cloud services that then will use in other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cloud services that we will then use in other applications.
```

This tutorial assumes that you already have a Kubernetes cluster setup with Helm and
Kubeapps. If you don't have Helm or Kubeapps you can follow the [installation instructions for Kubeapps](getting-started.md).

## Deploy Service Catalog

The Service Catalog is distributed as a Helm Chart. To deploy it in your cluster, run
the following:

```

> helm repo add svc-cat https://svc-catalog-charts.storage.googleapis.com

Reviewer: +1, we include it by default, but maybe it's more steps to describe whereas the CLI commands are easy to copy

Although the Quickstart mentions AKS, the instructions should work in any Kubernetes
cluster.

To check that the broker has been succesfully deployed run the following:

```
kubectl get ClusterServiceBroker osba
```

If the Broker has been succesfully installed and the catalog has been properly
downloaded you should get the following output:

```
NAME         URL                                                                                     STATUS   AGE
osba         https://osba-open-service-broker-azure.osba.svc.cluster.local                           Ready    6m
```

## Deploy the GCP Service Broker

To deploy the GCP Service Broker you will need to configure a GCP account and project.
The services you are going to use are paid-for and, therefore, you need to have your
account and billing settings set up properly.

Once you have your account set up, follow the instructions at https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/add-on/service-catalog/install-service-catalog. 
You can skip the part of deploying the Service Catalog (which we already deployed

> using the Helm Chart). Although the instructions mention GKE, those should work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the Helm Chart). Although the instructions mention GKE, they should work
```

use it as the database for our new Wordpress deployment.

### Provisioning the Azure MySQL database

In the list of classes, click on "Select a plan" in the Azure Database for
MySQL 5.7 card:

![Azure MySQL class](../img/azure-mysql-class.png)

We will select the `Basic Tier` which will be enough for our testing purposes

![Azure MySQL basic-tier](../img/azure-basic-tier.png)

After giving it a name, we will provide a set of options for our instance,
like firewall rules to allow incoming traffic, the location of the instance,
and the Azure resource group:

![Azure MySQL options](../img/azure-mysql-options.png)

Once we click on `Submit` the instance will start provisioning. Refresh the
page regularly to check on the progress. Provisioning an Azure MySQL instance
takes around 10-15 minutes.

![Azure MySQL provisioning](../img/azure-mysql-provisioning.png)

Once provisioned you will be able to create a Binding to connect your application
to it. Click on `Add Binding` and select a name for it (the default should
be OK). Creating a new binding should be very fast. 

Once the binding creation has been completed, the details of the created

> secret can be explored directly from the same page, clicking on `show`.

Reviewer: We should probably add a note here telling the user to note down the credentials, as we'll use them in the next step.

on the broker and the instance. For Azure MySQL the secret will have the
following schema:

```
database: name of the database
host: the URL of the instance
username: the user name to connect to the database
password: the password for user username
port: the port where MySQL is listening
[...]
```

### Deploying Wordpress

We will now deploy Wordpress, using Azure MySQL as database. In the `Catalog`
we will search for `wordpress`:

![Searching Wordpress](../img/search-wordpress.png)

We will click on `Deploy` and will modify the values.yaml of the application
with the following values:

```
externalDatabase.host: host value in the binding secret
externalDatabase.user: username value in the binding secret
externalDatabase.password: password value in the binding secret
externalDatabase.database: database value in the binding secret
mariadb.enabled: false (to avoid deploying a MariaDB database)
```

Once those values have been modified, click on `Submit` and wait until the
deployment is completed:

![Wordpress deployed](../img/wordpress-deployed.png)

If we check the wordpress pod log we can see that it connected successfully
to the Azure MySQL database:

```

> k logs wordpress-app-wordpress-597b9dbb5-2rk4k

Reviewer: 👍, clearer to use the full command name

> k logs wordpress-app-wordpress-597b9dbb5-2rk4k

Author: oops 🤣

mysql-c INFO  Found MySQL server listening at 93489418-7a54-4b2c-b807-d239cb26ad5d.mysql.database.azure.com:3306
mysql-c INFO  MySQL server listening and working at 93489418-7a54-4b2c-b807-d239cb26ad5d.mysql.database.azure.com:3306
```

## Example 2. Chartmuseum using a GCP storage bucket

[ChartMuseum](https://github.com/helm/chartmuseum) is an open-source project
that allows you to easily have your own valid Helm Chart Repository. It has
support for different cloud storage backends, including [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/).

In this example we will create a Google Cloud Storage instance with Kubeapps
Service Catalog integration, and we will use it as backend for a ChartMuseum
deployment.

### Provisioning the Google Cloud Storage bucket.

Under `Service Instances` click on `Deploy Service Instance` and select Google
Cloud Storage:

![Google Cloud Storage](../img/gcp-storage.png)

Select the `Beta plan` and provide a name. 

We will be adding some parameters to configure the name of the bucket and
the location. We will leave the rest of the options with the default values:  

![Google Cloud Storage options](../img/gcp-storage-options.png)

> Once provisioned, we will add a binding clicking on `Add binding`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once provisioned, click on `Add binding` to create a binding:
```

![Google Cloud Storage binding options](../img/gcp-storage-binding-options.png)

That will create a new service account in your GCP project with the right

> persmissions to access the bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permissions to access the bucket.
```

Once the binding creation has been completed, the details of the created

> secret can be explored directly from the same page, clicking on `show`.

Reviewer: Again, we should probably tell the user to note down the credentials for the next step.

It is important to understand the schema of the secret, as it is dependent
on the broker and the instance. For Google Storage the secret will have the
following schema:

```
bucketId: the id of the bucket
privateKeyData: JSON with authantication details for the bucket
projectId: the GCP project where the bucket was created
serviceAccount: the service account to access the bucket
```

### Deploy Chartmuseum

We will now deploy ChartMuseum, using Google Cloud Storage as backend.
In the `Catalog` we will search for `chartmuseum`:

![Searching ChartMuseum](../img/search-chartmuseum.png)

Click on `Deploy` and modify the following values:

```

> env.open.STORAGE: google

Reviewer 2: maybe it's better to copy here a YAML snippet that users can paste in Kubeapps directly? (instead of looking for the specific fields)

Author: mmm, I am not sure. The problem is that in Kubeapps, the default behaviour (I believe) is to go through the values.yaml and replace the values you want to replace, rather than replacing the whole values.yaml. Those values are in very different places, so adding the full values.yaml would be too big. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Yes, what I meant is, to avoid having to navigate through the whole values.yaml, tell the user something like: 

```
Replace the default values.yaml with the following snippet and fill it with the values from the service binding:

env:
  open:
    STORAGE: google
    STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: <name of the created bucket in the instance>
...
```

There is no need to specify the whole values.yaml, specifying just those fields will have the same effect.

env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_BUCKET: <name of the created bucket in the instance>
env.open.STORAGE_GOOGLE_PREFIX: charts
gcp.secret.enabled: true
gcp.secret.name: <name of the binding secret>
gcp.secret.key: privateKeyData
```

As ChartMuseum expects the format of the authentication information contained
in the JSON, it is only needed to specify the key of the secret that contains

> that JSON (in our case `privateKeyData`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that JSON (in our case `privateKeyData`).
```
